Jacob Warcholik

Implementation:

This Script contains the representation code for feature extraction required for
deliverable 2 of this project. It gives the user the option of two algorithms.
The first is the RAD algorithm which uses joints with IDs 1, 4, 8, 12, 16, and 20.
This corresponds to the hip, head, hands and feet. In the RAD algorithm 10 histograms
are computed, 5 describing the distance of the extremity to the hips and 5 describing
the angle between an extremity and the extremity found directly clockwise of it assuming
the body is star shaped. The distances are calculated using the euclidean distance formula.
The angles are calculated using the relation that the cosine of the angle between two vectors
is equal to the dot product of the vectors divided by the product of the vector magnitudes.
Each histogram is normalized by dividing every element in the histogram by the total Number
of frames being used. The second algorithm offered by this script is the HJPD algorithm.
In this algorithm every joint is used and related to the hips to find the displacement
of each joint in every frame. The displacement is calculated by taking the absolute values
of each difference in the x, y and z components of the joint being related to the hip position.
From this 19 histograms are created representing each joint. Once again these histograms are
normalized by dividing by the total number of frames being used. For both algorithms the
normalized histograms are concatenated into a single feature vector which is written to the
appropriate output file for the selected mode and algorithm. The current output files were
created using a bin size of 10 but this value is customizable to aid in the testing of deliverable
2.

Compile and Run:

To run this file simply navigate to the folder containing the script and enter the command:

python3 featureRepresentation.py

When the script is run the user will be prompted for four items; the mode, algorithm, dataset
file path, and number of bins to use. The mode allows the user to choose between training and testing.
The algorithm allows the user to choose the RAD algorithm or the custom (HJPD) algorithm.
The file path tells the script where to get the sensor data files from and the bin number setting allows
for ease of testing different number of bins in the histograms.
